---
layout: post
title:  "The things I wish I knew before getting an EV"
date:   2023-05-10T17:25:52-05:00
author: Ted K.
categories: Software
cover: /assets/posts/html5vid/desktop.png
---

We just finished our first trip with the car, some thoughts/observations:

- We picked up the car from dealer on Sat 9AM
- We drove to Lane Cove for brunch
- The car was 90% full but I wanted to give a try to non-Tesla public charging in the shopping centre parking
- The Canopy in Lane Cove happens to have evie (https://goevie.com.au). The device was cool and what not, but to use it, I had to have a corresponding app, account link credit card - all the jazz. Unfortunately, in that underground parking I didn't have Telstra reception. Since I wanted to set it up on my phone, I ended up using Kate's device as personal hotspots. Anyway, some taps later, a few time outs on the charger it kind of worked and pumped the car to 100%. Win
- we then drove to Yass, with a stop in Goulburn for some charging action. All went smooth. We happened to take the last free spot at the supercharger station, but that was a win. A brief walk for some take away coffee, a few minutes in a park and back on road. Great experience
- we then drove to Murrumbateman to stay there a night
- once there, we went to wineyard/restaurant type of a place. We didn't plan this ahead of time, but the place actually was a Tesla destination charger. Yay! Then again, it didn't work (taped/marked as broken by owner). Life
today, thinks went a bit down hill
- we went to Canberra to National Museum Australia. Not sure why, Kate was positive it has charging station. We were at like 30% and that charging was needed to get back home
there wasn't charger there. our fault, but no dramas, we could get to next destination easy
- on the way to one of the properties from Kate's national trust, we found an NRMA charger. Free fuel! awesome. I dropped off Kate at the place as she wanted to do some work and went to NRMA few mins away.
- there was only one charger, but with 2 interfaces. From PlugShare I knew it will be occupied but I hoped I would be able to use other interface. Wrong. One charger, two cables, only one cable can be used at a time
so, ~40 mins charging session turned into 30 mins of waiting + ~45 mins of charging
~45 because mid way, the charging just stopped without an explanation. I was on a brief walk for some goodies so couldn't fix this immediately
we spent there more than hour with young ones only to get to like 40% or so
that's kind was kind of OK - we could charge and Goulburn again
we go there, the place is full
just a few mins waiting luckily but at that stage we were low on juice which meant ~1hr 15 mins of charging. It's dark, cold, raining and all places walkable are closed
real bummer, but we wait
then we drive to Shell as they have Oliver's fast but sensible food
while eating, I check if we can get home and the car estimates we'll be home with 5% juice left, which makes me just too uncomfortable
so I pick yet another supercharger on the way home in Campbelltown
one day 3 charging sessions 1hr each.
Kate is really pissed and wants me to stop selling Outback
luckily, as we were driving home, the estimate got re-estimated and I got us home with 27% of juice left - which is great
but yeah all in all, amazing device, when everything works as intended, as design the experience is magic
but then when reality hits - it does require some planning, even on trips as short as Syd <> Canberra
end of story, sorry for flood of messages. For whatever reason, I thought you may find it interesting. I thought it would end up shorter
The car did well, Au recharging network is not great yet
It's kind of mixed message really. I was surprised to see fast DC chargers in Yass, but also in Murrumbateman
what I haven't taken into account is that Tesla and others made a lot of deliveries recently, and that infra already starts to be insufficient
even the supercharger network
Don't you have the magic charge stop planner?
I ended up using 3 apps for that - Tesla App, PlugShare (found NRMA with it) and the Evie app I set up in step 1
I ended up depending on all 3 of them which was annoying in itself
as, on that path from Canberra further back home - Tesla shows only super chargers and the next one was in Goulburn or again Canberra - too far
I then used Evie and that way found the one in Murrmbateman which was mid way between Kate's work and Canberra. Not ideal, but OK
then with PlugShare I found NRMA one which was minutes from Kate's location
I guess I should have used the PlugShare after Tesla
Google Maps doesn’t show charger stations?
oh! And also there is this etiquette - when you use PlugShare you should check in, that you're waiting and then that you're charging and for how long.
It's to let others know - I found in one comment about the NRMA place someone bitching about there being two Teslas "obviously not checked in with PlugShare"
lesson learn
I haven't thought about Google Maps - thx Kuba
ok, even Apple map was aware of it
good lesson
The car's map can't do it?
ok, maybe there is a way to set it up
but, by default it shows only Tesla Superchargers
There’s definitely a 3rd party solution to look for all of them. And if there isn’t then you know what to do 😜
yeah, PlugShare is the standard I think
but then fast charging is offered by different networks and each network == app + account + CC setup
you have Evie, Jolt and Chargefox
also AmpCharge from Ampol , another app
sigh
I wish they all just supported credit card payments. You tap, it locks $50, you're down it charges specific amount and we're don
done
